# Mod5_PyBer_Challenge
Python 3.7, Jupyter Notebook, scypy, numpy, mathplotlib
# Report
## Analysis/Methodology/Summary
This project analyzed ride share data for 2375 rides across 120 cities using pandas, matplotlib, and jupyter notebook and produced 7 charts and multiple data frames. The objective is to provide insights into ride affordability and accessibility. In the analysis, the data was first merged and grouped by city types: ‘urban’, ‘rural’, and ‘suburban’. The distinction and meaningfulness of the groupings is best illustrated by PyBer Analysis Fig1 ‘PyBer Ride-Sharing Data (2019)’ a scatterplot of average fares and total number of rides with graduated symbology based on driver counts. The plot indicates a negative correlation of higher fares and number of rides, a negative correlation between average fare and driver count, and shows how city types (symbolized by color) are clustered. Put simply, rides are least assessable and least affordable in rural areas and are much more assessable and affordable in urban cities. Because the data sets are large box and whisker plots were used to illustrate their variance by type and to isolate any outliers. Fig2, Fig3, and Fig4 show that there is one outlying, urban city with 39 rides and that there is some minor left and right skewing (indicated by higher or lower averages bisecting the box portion of the graphs), but, that across the hundreds of cities and rides the data are largely normally distributed in each grouping. Rounding out the analysis 3 pie charts Fig7, Fig6, and Fig5 show the same data as percentages of total ride data. Finally, the fare summary challenge_fare_summary is a line chart of daily/hourly fare rates in the first 1/3rd of 2019 and shows both how much more revenue urban cities bring in and how each city type differs in terms of seasonal trends.

## Errors and Troubleshooting Methodology
The challenge was straightforward but I encountered a couple of minor problems. First, in the analysis the title and font of Fig5 (a pie chart titled ‘% of Total Fares by City Type’) was set to match all the others but consistently output as a slightly smaller font. I still do not know why it did this, but I bumped up the font to match the others by 2. The second problem I encountered was with the final, challenge chart. I initially set the date range for too long ( April 30th instead of April 28th) and saw the lines all drop off. This bothered me because the data do not represent a full, final month of cases but it was hard to distinguish on the chart. If I were really doing this I would either insist on a full, more meaningful dataset or indicate the exact range of dates on the chart. The final and most difficult challenge I faced was with using github. Durning the analysis I committed and pushed more files than I intended and manually deleted some redundant data from my repository but in the process broke some of my other files and caused a problem with pushing any subsequent data owing to the repository assuming that both sets were different versions. To get around this I used a command to recognize the final push as from the master and overwrote everything.

## Conclusions and Future Analysis Brainstorming
Some conclusions based on the analysis,
- Ride sharing metrics in urban, Rural, and Suburban cities are so distinct in terms of affordability, accessibility, share of total rides, seasonal trends, and profitability that they may as well be different businesses.-
- Drivers relocating from one city type to another may be retained longer or more likely to switch (temporarily) if given basic tips and trend data for each area type to decrease their cost and improve their efficiency. An example could be to use hypermiling techniques to improve fuel-efficiency over, presumably longer rural drives and to put out something like a NOTAMs service to drivers in a multi-city region alerting them in advance to high-attendance events in different areas.-
To create a ride-share driver equivalent of a NOTAMs service and guidelines for drivers to improve their profits and, in turn ride accessibility and affordability, I would use a more historical data formatted in the similar way as the challenge_fare_summary line chart to quantify the value of the change in fare rates to simplify the process of driver arbitrage. To create a predictive least cost path algorithm I may start by geocoding historical event data, invitee count, and its ruralness by cities and comparing it with filled and unfilled ride requests/ rate increases, and then estimate ride demand and the value for drivers to shift cities for future, published events based on their invitee count and the local driver count.
